this video is about a topic that's
important enough to me that I think I
could honestly say if I made a new video
trying to answer the same question once
a year every year I'd probably present a
significantly different answer as each
year goes by and that's not because my
own philosophy of life is changing now
at age 39 I feel that in many ways my
philosophy of life is quite consistent
whereas it wasn't if you compare or what
I believed at age 16 to what I believe
that age 19 and so on but I got a
question from Adrian Adrian is not just
a I don't know an Internet acquaintance
she's actually been a collaborator on
this channel she's appeared in several
videos here when I talked to her a
couple of years ago she was just
switching her major to be human rights
and she wrote to me now couple days ago
asking if I basically had a reading list
I could offer if I could offer her
encouragement about what to read in now
switching her major from human rights
into political science and she said
sling to me it's quite intelligent but
it's almost verbatim something I've said
many many times to many other people she
said that her problem with the way
politics is being taught in her
university in the Department of Human
Rights was that the professors were
neither teaching facts nor methods not
teaching you how to research things not
teaching how to come to conclusions
the professors were teaching what she
ought to believe teaching what you ought
to think is different from teaching the
truth teaching the facts teaching them
the way things are and she had various
examples of this now that's a huge
problem the teaching of politics it's an
even greater problem you can imagine in
the teaching of religion so very very
often what was involved in put a studies
it was scholar Buddhism fourth in ten
years
the fundamental problem I had with other
scholars in the field was that they
would tell you what you ought to believe
and they would not tell you what the
text actually said about interpretation
and translation of an ancient text they
would not tell you historical
circumstances historical facts etc very
often if you're telling something that's
quite quite incompatible with those
things
so I would say that is really a
religious mentality that can be found
within politics and I don't think it's
too much to say those are people taking
religious attitude towards teaching
political science in universities now
let's play devil's advocate here you can
sympathize to some extent these
university professors are probably aware
that some of their students are racist
and they want them to not be racist you
know they are aware that some of their
students may be our conservative
bumpkins and they think that this is a
special opportunity for them coming into
a university classroom to adopt what our
perhaps cosmopolitan and sophisticated
attitudes and they're trying to
inculcate those attitudes in their
students minds
however this is fundamentally a
condescending and indeed evil attitude
for an educator to have you should never
teach your students what they ought to
think you have to provide them with
methodology methods so they can form
original research German university
level education the heart and soul and
body and mind of university education is
original research period so it's not
about original research then it ain't
about a goddamn thing and it shouldn't
be in the classroom so you are equipping
them to perform original research and
you're showing them examples of what
original research looks like and nothing
else and you've got to deal with those
things even when they're unflattering to
your political agenda even when they
might favor politically incorrect or
politically inconvenient things so the
interesting thing for me to hear back
from Adrian several years after the
first video I made with her that she's
switching into political science because
she's hoping to deal with an end of I
guess political philosophy that's
dealing more with reality and she felt
the things over in her Department of
Human Rights were a little bit too
unreal so this is the fissure between
teaching how the world ought to be as
opposed to studying the world as it
really is and the problem is it's not
just professors in the classroom that
have this attitude of telling you what
you ought to believe not informing you
of facts history
etc this is also a tremendous corrupting
influence in the textbooks you'll be
able to work with as a student history
books of any kind but in general general
histories are the worst the less
specific and less analytical and less
incisive a history textbook is or
political textbook is the more it tends
to become propaganda this is a huge
problem in Western culture it's a
problem British culture it's prone in
American culture it's a problem in
Russian culture and fresh culture but
even within Western countries once you
get more familiar with political science
textbooks initiatives books you'll also
see that there are really culturally
specific ways in which those authors are
misleading their audiences the way a
British author writes about history is
actually significantly different from
the way a French or American author
generally will and I think many of those
differences are unexamined ie the
authors themselves are not aware of the
stylistic and methodological choices
that they're making you can even see
that in the organization of books on
history and politics but so the first
piece of advice here and a younger
person asking me for a reading list
which course I'm not really going to
give you an advice about how to read
them what to read when building yourself
up as an expert in politics um the best
way to avoid that type of bias the
unbelievable and really horrifying bias
that's built into political science
textbooks and general works of history
is actually to read first-person sources
that openly declare their bias so one of
the books that really crystallized my
thought about this when I was in my
first year of university and by the way
at that time I was not scholarly at all
in my habits
I was working an exhausting full-time
job at Starbucks so I was waking up at
strange hours and going to sleep at
strange hours could some days Starbucks
would open at 6:00 a.m. I'd have to be
there at 5:30 or signed up from the
store it's amazing we close at midnight
so I was really exhausted but among them
a little bit of reading I did in that
first year university is that recall was
um the autobiography of the ambassador
to Spain during World War two and the
years just leading up to World War two
and I remember what a shocking contrast
this was and of course everyone likes to
lie about World War two
a lot of reasons why people right you
know you know emotionally impassioned
distorted versions of the truth but
world war two there's such extreme
events for the people involved with them
and even for the people who are looking
back fifty years later and writing about
them but wow you know the position of
Spain in the Spanish Civil War at the
end of the Spanish Civil War and then
the beginning of World War two very you
know morally murky diplomatically
complex situation what was Spain's
relationship with the United Kingdom
with France with Germany and how did
this change you by year even you know
what was Spanish fascism and its
relationship to German fascism and I
remember just having this tremendous
feeling with the difference I was
reading here I think was the British
ambassador to Spain first person account
of what the issues were and of course it
was much different in terms of the
pragmatic struggles involved like in
that account it was talking about the
struggles of the different governments
to gain access to and control over
particular metals and particular
minerals that were suddenly very scarce
trying to produce tanks and armaments
rule or - Wow
none of these other books mention
anything about that and then that there
were political and diplomatic aspects of
that Germany was trying to secure access
to Spanish wolfram Wolfram's the name of
a mineral used in hardening steel and
the British and other concerns were
trying to prevent the Germans from
accessing this mineral so it's a
peculiar situation but above all else
this was a book written in the first
person this was a book written with the
words I was doing X I did this I did
that and that was indeed a tremendous
contrast to what you'd get coming out of
any kind of history textbook or
analytical work in political science so
that was one thing that refresh me that
the book I've read most recently before
making this video was an autobiography
written in prison actually house arrest
not prison but the former prime minister
of China called jeho the young child's
knee and so josiane was prime minister
of China and in the events of 1989
especially the Tiananmen Square massacre
he was kicked out of power
and put into again you could say prison
you could say house arrest or
what-have-you and he writes the history
of that period of time from his house
arrest
obviously as he has a reason to be
honest but in some ways of course he has
reasons to flatter his own role in
history he's writing about his own
period as a prime minister of China or
premier of China I think technically
premier rather than Prime Minister is
the rori title but anyway um the quality
and the perspective you get from someone
who was in power someone who was himself
struggling with the different forms of
competing influence inside the
government there's again there's a
tremendous qualitative difference and
there's also a difference in including
these pragmatic elements and before I
was mentioning some of metal shortages
okay so that's that's a pretty pretty
simple palpable difference in
perspective but obviously people running
from the inside people running from the
first-person perspective they'll also
really give you a feeling of how
government works how state power
operates not just why things happen but
how they happen or what alternatives
were considered and why those
alternatives didn't happen and so on so
that's I mean a real window onto
political science that I think will
shatter your belief in the whole
discipline and will change the way you
regard histories written by academic
outsiders and will I think intensify
your appreciation for original research
based on primary source materials
whether those primary sources are laws
you know law can be a primary source
whether there are statistics social
statistics whether they're direct
interviews with witnesses to history or
whether some of this an autobiography of
a former prime minister in prison or an
autobiography of the former diplomat
that kind of Reason I think is
tremendously powerful and it's a
contrast to the problem that Adrienne
wrote to me complaining about however
there's a caveat there too if you read
the perspective of someone involved in
foreign policy like a diplomat or you
read the perspective of a prime minister
like jealousy young you are never going
to understand how government operates at
the level of the mayor at local
government whether that's provincial
government County government the city
government mayor government and that is
tremendously important too I'll come
back later in this video so this already
gives you the first spectrum of reading
I'm talking about it be necessary to do
first person perspective reading sort of
from top to bottom when you think about
autobiographies written by prime
ministers witnesses and participants in
history and being aware that somebody at
the top some like Prime Minister is
going to view these things very
differently some at the bottom and of
course when you're reading those books
you you need to be acutely aware of the
ways in which the author is motivated to
be honest with you and the ways in which
the author is motivated to be dishonest
with you they may be concealing crimes
against humanity they've committed they
may be concealing you know very well
atrocities however nevertheless you will
probably find a type of incisive honesty
in them that you're not going to find in
general histories official history you
might say written from an outside
perspective and I guess maybe the most
extreme example this a book I really
learned a lot from and enjoyed reading
was actually on the book called no more
Viet Nam's written by Nixon Richard
Nixon the president United States now
Richard Nixon was a notorious liar he
lied about many things but nevertheless
there's a lot of truth in that book and
even when Nixon is kind of being
dishonest with you in blaming other
presidents the United States the
decisions they made he tries to kind of
shift a lot of the blame off of his own
decisions and on two presidents united
states who served before him pointing
out that many of the problems and
mistakes were not his fault there was no
sofa that nevertheless is actually
really valuable information absolutely
valuable perspective from someone who's
really worth quoting and really worth
quoting in an essay and what-have-you so
even someone as dishonest as Richard
Nixon reading his autobiographical
first-person perspectives on the history
he was involved in that he had blood on
his hands from is actually much more
informative than a lot of the dishonest
perspectives on that same history from
the outside this is my first piece of
advice now over the second piece of
advice I have simply has to do with the
geographic span of politics in history
I tried to debate this with professors
that
in Canada in our Department of Asian
Studies I think it's really really
important for every young person it's
important if you're old to and you've
got the time to just look at a map and
ask yourself have you done a research
project on each of these places each of
these geographic areas so for example
the whole continent of Africa obviously
you could spend your lifetime just
studying it but that's not more
proposing here
do a quick Wikipedia reading above the
history of Mally mal I'm Ali and I think
if you just look at Wikipedia history of
metal you'll get the sense Wow if I took
a certain number of hours to read about
history and politics of Malley the whole
history you know so going back to the
earliest records through the current
politics today I wouldn't just get an
appreciation for history politics in
Malley I get a comparative sense of how
Malley is unique how it is different
from other surrounding countries in
Africa I'd be introduced into the
discourse surrounding this type of
politics in the whole continent of
Africa now of course every example is
imperfect if you just look at Malley of
course it is not a representative
example I want to make a separate video
with that no example is representative
in politics you're not looking for this
example to represent something other
than itself the history of Malley is
simply important in and of itself as the
history of Malley period you're not
looking for to represent the whole
continent but you'll never tha less get
a kind of introduction into the politics
and history of the whole continent of
Africa and of course there are parallels
however imperfect when you look at the
history of manly and you look at the
history of Sudan Sudan and Malley are
very fault for our part but nevertheless
there are profound things that in common
now I'd say that about Africa I'd say
that but the Caribbean
it really did influence me in life that
I did a research project on the history
of Haiti Haiti is spelled with an H now
of course
studying the history of Haiti does not
teach you the history of Cuba or even
the history of the Dominican Republic or
the history of Jamaica but nevertheless
just doing one research project like
that and try to do the whole history you
know beginning to end I can definitely
say that I have in a kind of
appreciation I'm equipped with the
basics where I can pretty rapidly relate
to and understand
if I start reading about political
history of Jamaica or another Caribbean
country from what I learned about Haiti
and when you're reading sources on the
history of Haiti just like reading
source of the history of mattli in
Africa you're going to get analytical
and comparative statements about those
other countries surrounding in the
region so if you can pick one country
and again even just starting with
Wikipedia and really do some research
find a pretext while you're in
university because I don't know how your
university program is designed to study
you know one country its history and
politics out of Africa Central America
and the Caribbean South America you know
obviously then for the rest he Stasia
Southeast Asia etc etc I think that's a
tremendously important and tremendously
powerful thing when I was at University
of Victoria and talking to my professors
there I would point out to them the
enormous gaps in the curriculum they
were teaching just as supposedly asian
studies as a survey of asia so that's
not even the whole world that's just
Asia but pointed to them
do you realize that India is not
mentioned in even one course you know
the single course mentioning or touching
on all of India and Pakistan how can
this be
asian studies this is ridiculous you
know of a single course dealing with the
the Arabic world so the Muslim world but
really talking about Saudi Arabia and
the Arabic world is smaller area than
the Muslim growth you have any civil
course syllabus how can this be Asian
Studies you know anything on the history
of Islam or nor the history of Buddhism
for that matter how this transformed you
know politics of Asia these are huge
huge issues so yes again you obviously
need to also pick some example of a
country from the from the Arabic world
and study that history too but so I do
think there's a geographic span here
where you need to cover the whole world
and I'm sorry but that's kind of the way
politics works if you don't understand
everything you understand nothing if you
only understand the perspective of a
colonial power like England you're never
going to understand the perspective of
India or Indonesia
or even Japan right so there really is a
sense in which I think every every
student of politics has to dig in and do
that work kind of continent by continent
or region by region because again Asia
if you just call it one continent
East Asia is very different Southeast
Asia Central Asia the Arabic world or
West Asia so-called Middle East and so
on all of that you've got to put in some
hours so that you are equipped with
these kinds of examples with these kinds
of case studies and each one is going to
deepen and broaden your your ability to
deal with politics um what I'm gonna say
next
so this is 0.3 in this video depends on
how we counted 0.3 0.4 but this is the
easiest part to preach and the hardest
part to practice which is the historical
span of politics it's very easy for me
to say look you got to look at the
historical span and make a checklist and
read major works from ancient Greece
ancient Rome the English revolution also
known as the English Civil War the
French Revolution
Napoleon the Russian Revolution the
Chinese Revolution we could add more to
that list right and what about the
colonization of North America what about
the colonization of Australia
you could add many more things but it's
easy to make a checklist of the sort of
great turning points in the football
history of the world and then say
there's people well you've got to buckle
down and read representative works
become what is representative nothings
representative in politics you can read
a representative history written by
someone who's pro napoleon and it's not
gonna represent any of the very
important facts from someone who is anti
napoleon let alone someone actually
lived through that period of time and is
writing against napoleon in the first
person with that passion and that
perspective of someone whose own friends
and relatives may have been tortured to
death by the Napoleonic regime or
someone who maybe saw the absurdity of
Napoleon trying to recreate slavery a
international slave trade in the French
Empire after the French Revolution had
briefly abolished slavery these are big
big questions deep issues and deep
sources of bias so the issue of
historical span as I say this is easy to
preach but tough to practice in terms of
actually getting down to what people
should read and how to cover this whole
span ancient Greece ancient Rome
French Revolution etc as I say it's it's
not with the list of events that's hard
I mean like in a sense everyone in
politics knows that the revolution in
China is this tremendously important
thing in the world's history but what
have they actually read about it and do
they even know how to approach that
issue how to put together a rating list
the other fundamental problem here with
my third point on the list is that the
history of the world's disasters is not
the history of the world it's very easy
to read political science as the history
of crises and the history of crisis
management so I said before that I was
going to come back to this issue it's a
tremendous important issue I said before
that um you you really need to be weary
you need to be concerned about the fact
that reading the perspective of a prime
minister or president will not tell you
how the mayor's office works it will not
tell you how the provincial office works
the governor's office how local
government works it will not tell you
about the normal workings of government
nor the judiciary nor the legal system
nor the prison system nor the police on
the streets and those things all matter
in politics they matter tremendously but
if you think about it let's say I was
talking to a student from China or
Cambodia I've lived in China and I've
lived in Cambodia and someone in
Cambodia asked me for a reading
recommendation how what can they read to
understand how the police operate
normally in the city of Los Angeles had
the police and the legal system and the
prisons and the mayor's office what's
normal in Los Angeles not about say a
riot you know that's easy it's easy for
me to give you an example of a crisis
one of the race riots like the Rodney
King riots in the city of Los Angeles
there are movies and books about that
it's easy for me to present you with a
crisis and crisis management and a
larger scale you can say that - it's
easy for me to recommend to you a book
about some particularly terrible event
in the French Revolution the great
terror and mass murder going on and it's
much harder to find out how did that
society work in between crises in
between revolutions and this kind of
thing you said I'm saying so in the same
is true of say ancient Greece and
ancient Rome how did the society work
not just its collapse
how did society work
before the Russian Revolution and after
the Russian Revolution the various
periods of communism so this is in a
sense the anthropological hole in
political science that political science
tends to never inform us with the
anthropological reality of how people
live how Authority operates whether it's
the cops on the street in Los Angeles or
how your life was actually organized and
ordered and planned living in China in
the 1960s or living in Russia in the
1930s under any of these political
systems even today I mean do you want to
know today how really does it country
like Saudi Arabia work how does life
work in Saudi Arabia and there is no
simple solution for this problem I mean
I hope if somebody is watching this
who's an educator who's actually
university professor this is really what
you need to think through strategically
and putting together a curriculum that
covers these bases for any one of these
countries I think you need to cover
these bases even if you're teaching
politics of Canada but almost nobody
makes that kind of effort nobody makes
an effort to include the anthropological
elements nobody makes an effort to
conclude the local government
development how does the mayor's office
work or how does it fail to work and so
on let alone these other methodological
concerns so I say again the history of
the world's great disasters is not the
history of the world the the political
history of a crisis and then crisis
management is never gonna tell you how
political Authority operates in that
country I mean you can look at a famous
disaster like the Deepwater Horizon
disaster you can look at how the
government responds to for example in
Russia the Chernobyl disaster the in
Japan there was this great nuclear
disaster just a couple of years ago
after a tsunami giant wave from the
ocean hit a hit a nuclear reactor if you
studied that and you studied to the
Japanese government responded to it you
still wouldn't understand any of these
deeper systemic questions of
fundamentally how does the Japanese
government work etc right so this is the
this is the final warning I'm trying to
issue in this in this video
it is both deep and
it's a very hard thing to become a
well-read person in politics and you
know one of the reasons why it's so
difficult is that it's only after you
have an advanced understanding that you
can appreciate and even enjoy doing the
kind of reading I'm recommending here so
I talked to my ex-wife on skype a couple
of days ago and I mentioned to her I
said oh you know I'm reading this book
the autobiography of Jones Jones a young
sorry the autobiography of this former
prime minister of China who ended up in
prison you know I was tommix why this
because I remember she used to own a
copy of the book I never read it back
mashita cup and I just bought a copy in
and read it and it was really surprising
me because my ex-wife was a PhD in
anthropology she said that she she it's
true she used to own the book but she
really couldn't get into it she couldn't
enjoy it she couldn't get past chapter
one and so she had never really read
much of it she'd only read a few pages
or something
she found alienating on her to
understand and to me that same book is
really fascinating and really rewarding
it seems self-evident to me how
important is to read another example is
through Sidda teas so Thucydides is an
historian from ancient Greek but his
work is very political it's very
important for political philosophy I can
tell you about how moving and meaningful
it is for me to read through cities for
me to read politics from that
perspective in that tradition but at the
same time will my own current girlfriend
my girlfriend's 25 years old she asked
me you know about what you should be
reading we were at a bookstore together
and you know Thucydides was there on the
Shelf if she should be reading through
cities and I found myself saying to her
well you know I don't I don't know if
you're gonna be able to appreciate or
enjoy this book I don't know if you'd
find an interesting in the same way I'd
find interesting you know I'm just
standing there and thinking and then
it's very difficult for me to
analytically unpack why it is I can
relate to this book and enjoy it in a
profound way as well as why I find
utility in it why I find it so useful
you know in a shallower sense as really
instructive about politics you know and
it's difficult for me to think back
how would I have responded to this book
if I read at age 17 if I read it at age
27 you know um
so these things are all interrelated I
mean as as much as it may sound
unrelated I mean these are all based on
the the school of studying human nature
and you know in many ways the
foundational reading I did about the
history of Haiti the slave rebellion ad
about Napoleon
about the failure of the French
Revolution of these unrelated histories
from other corners of the world the
reading I did about the history of Japan
but the wars between Russia and Japan
you know if you think but there's like
pontal ISM little little points of
information really unrelated all around
the world of course the history of
Cambodia the history of Thailand but the
history of Canada the creative way each
of these interests they really do inform
one another in a profound sense and the
reading you do in each province of
political science really does illuminate
and deepen that your appreciation for
the reading you do in the other
provinces reciprocal with this your
patience and your tolerance for
weasel words vague writing and your
tolerance for propaganda passing itself
off as political science propaganda
masquerading as real history your
patience for these flaws in the
literature will get slimmer and slimmer
the older and better informed you get so
guys as I said at the intro this is an
issue that's meaningful enough to me as
a student and as an educator that I feel
that if I made another video about this
one year from now I would make a
profoundly different video even though
my old my own philosophy hasn't changed
during this last year I've been a
professor at the University of level 20
and 21 year old students and I did try
to tackle some political historical
issues in my students I was really
trying to inform them about the history
of First Nations in Canada we did a
bunch of lessons on the anywhe it also
known as the Eskimos but Inuit where are
people in furthest north Canada and for
them as Chinese University students they
never thought about any of that stuff
before we talked about history of racial
segregation and States
many many many issues sir I'm not gonna
list them all but actually we did deal
with some historical and political
issues and I was having to present that
curriculum in a way that a 21 year old
student in China could relate to and
understand and where they also could do
their own original research because as I
said that's the body and the soul of
university level education well
ultimately it's not about me telling
them what they ought to think or what
they ought to believe it's about me
giving them enough information and then
a really good question is their role
being given question based assignments
to go out and do their own research and
come back and give a presentation in
class
so my perspective in making this video
today unlike a video answering the same
question one year ago or one year in the
future is partly influenced with the
fact that I've just had this experience
not just as a student but also as an
educator and in the year before that
when I was at the University of Victoria
in Canada I was talking to a lot of
educators I was having a lot of
conversations with my professors at the
university level that many of them were
very friendly to me and treated me to
some extent like an equal just cuz my
age and you know they didn't talk down
to me the way they might talk down to a
teenage student and I've got to tell you
it is really saddening that the types of
questions I'm asking here about how to
provide students with a meaningful deep
and broad introduction of politics
whether the politics of Asia the
politics of the the whole world those
questions are not being asked by
professors in Canada today I don't think
they're being asked by professors
anywhere in the discipline of political
science and I see many broader failings
it's a topic for another video in the
politics of the 21st century that do
reflect the underlying weakness of
political science as a discipline
political science is a discipline with
tremendous responsibility and that has
the potential to make a tremendous
difference in individual human lives the
students who signed up to study it and
also in the future of pretty much every
nation in the world and it's very
saddening to see that almost nobody in
the discipline takes that responsibility
seriously I would say that the whole
discipline is is much less interested in
in the truth to put it as simply as that
then for example the discipline of
history is or the
the discipline of anthropology so at
this point political science is at such
a low ebb is of such low quality that I
can openly say they have a great deal to
learn from the discipline of history and
the discipline of social anthropology
and one of the first things they're
going to discover is the extent to which
in the 21st century political science as
it is taught now is not a science
pathetically it is much closer to a form
of religion